# Meeting Culture

Let's face it, meeting are expensive. The easiest way to look at this is calculating the hourly cost of a meeting by summing up the resource cost of any attendees. But there is more than that, meetings are also impacting our mental energy before and after the meeting, they do disrupt your calendar and your capabilities to focus on a specific task with no interruptions. There is an implicit cost before and after a meeting as well. 

At the same time meetings are essential to the overall success of a team and organization. The cost of not having meeting at all, ever, will be far more expensive. 

We need to find a right balance in having meetings which produce a positive net outcome, where energies are spiking up vs spiking down when the meeting is over. How do we do that ? Few advices below.

1. Begin with the end in mind 

You need to have a clear statement on what you are aiming to achieve with the meeting, and picture the outcome you are targeting form the meeting. This will give you insights on who should be invited to the meeting, how long the meeting should last, and what agenda you should share with the attendees. 

2. Invite who can contribute (not who needs to be informed)

When you think about the attendees of your meeting, you want to invite those who can contribute to the meetings, not the one who needs to be informed. Keep the number as low as possible, if the list is getting too big then there are other ways to start mobilizing around the topic, such as asynchronous collaboration on documents.  There is no better way to say this than referring to [the two pizzas rules](https://www.inc.com/business-insider/jeff-bezos-productivity-tip-two-pizza-rule.html) by Jeff Bezo.

For people that need to stay informed, leverage the written documentation of the outcome of the meeting where it is summarized what has been decided and what are the next steps. Keep information log short and focused on the outcome of the meeting. 

3. Structure of the meeting

Even if you have prepared an agenda and shared some pre-read, there will be times when folks will join the meeting unprepared on the topic. Consider to have quite time at the beginning of the meeting to let everybody going through the pre-read, where meetings participants won't speak until everyone has finished reading. This will allow you to bring all the contributors to the same page. The approach is called the [silents meeting](https://www.cnbc.com/2018/11/07/amazon-and-square-execs-swear-by-the-silent-meeting--heres-why.html) and has been adopted by some very successful tech Companies for strategic planning and decision-making meetings.

4. Wrapping up the meeting

This is where having "the end in mind" materializes in a concrete summary of what has been discussed and decided. There should be a person (usually the meeting's host) in charge of writing down a summary of the conversation had and the decision made. A clear path for moving forward needs to be agreed and shared not only with participants but with people who need to be informed.  
